# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?

In console.rb, with property1, property2, property3.

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?

In the save functio, line 18.

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?

3 x delete()
1 x update()
1 x delete_all

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

SQL provides the unique id, not Ruby.

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?

In the constructor of the property class, then the save function provides the id.

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?

The if clause is there to guard against there not being an id.

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?

Some methods are only performed on individual objects/rows, whereas some require all the information in the table.

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

An array is returned and it's accessed using the relevant index.

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

Because it is the correct syntax that SQL will understand, whilst being safe and preventing security issues.



## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?

They are taking in the id or address of the property that they are searching for.

Q11. What are their return values?

They are returning a hash of the  relevant properties info
